Kubernetes basics interview questions
1. where do you store your docker files?
 place where you have code.

2. What is the Kubernetes?
Kubernetes is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. It groups containers that make up an application into logical units for easy management and discovery. 

3. What is Minikube?
Minikube is a tool that makes it easy to run Kubernetes locally. This runs a single Kubernetes cluster inside a virtual machine.

4. what is kubectl?
Kubectl is the platform using which you can pass commands to the cluster. 
When you interact with your Kubernetes cluster using the kubectl command, 
kubectl is communication between master API Server and cluster.

5. What is Kubelet?
This is an agent service which runs on each node.
Kubelet is communication between master and node.
Whoever try to speak (cluster master) with this Node they actually speak with kubelet inside this Node.

6. What do you understand by Kube-proxy?
Kube-proxy can run on each and every node and can do simple TCP/UDP packet forwarding across backend network service. So basically, it is a network proxy which reflects the services as configured in Kubernetes 

7. What is ETCD?
Etcd is written in Go programming language and is a distributed key-value store used for coordinating between distributed work. So, Etcd stores the configuration data of the Kubernetes cluster, representing the state of the cluster at any given point in time.

8. What is a namespace in Kubernetes?
Namespaces are intended for use in environments with many users spread across multiple teams, or projects. Namespaces are a way to divide cluster resources between multiple uses (via resource quota). In future versions of Kubernetes, objects in the same namespace will have the same access control policies by default.

9. What is a node in Kubernetes?
A node is a worker machine in Kubernetes, previously known as a minion. A nodemay be a VM or physical machine, depending on the cluster. Each node has the services necessary to run pods and is managed by the master components. The services on a node include Docker, kubelet and kube-proxy.

10. Which process runs on Kubernetes master node?
Kube-apiserver process runs on Kubernetes master node.

11. Which process runs on Kubernetes non-master node?
Kube-proxy process runs on Kubernetes non-master node.

12. Which process validates and configures data for the api objects like pods, services?
kube-apiserver process validates and configures data for the api objects.

13. What is the use of kube-controller-manager?

14. Where Kubernetes cluster data is stored?
etcd is responsible for storing Kubernetes cluster data.

15. What is the role of kube-scheduler?
kube-scheduler is responsible for assigning a node to newly created pods.

16. diff b/w ReplicaController and ReplicaSet?

ReplicaSet is the next-generation ReplicaController. The only diffrence between a ReplcaSet and ReplicaController is the selector support.
including a selector that specifies how to identify Pods…

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.       What is the advantage of Devops.

2.       How to create the branches in SVN.

3.       How to create the Repository.

4.       How you set the configuration file in Maven.

5.       How to run the Ant build.xml

6.       How to interconnect the Maven in Jenkins

7.       What is the use of Nexus repository

8.       How to commit the code in SVN

9.       How to give the access to user in SVN

10.   What is the use of contrib task in Jenkins

11.   What is the difference between ANT and Ant task

12.   What is file set

13.   Explain branching strategy.

14.   Node configuration in Jenkins

15.   How we will trigger the automatic build in Jenkins.

16.   What is the use of quit period?

17.   What is the use of build is parameterized?

18.   How we will rename the trunk ,branch, tag?

19.   Why we will use the sonar in Jenkins

20.   What are the plugins your installed in your Jenkins

21.   How you will upload the artifacts in nexus

22.   Can you explain the release process using m2 release plugin

23.   How you will do the deployment using the rundeck?

24.   How you will do the merging process?

25.   What are the issues resolved in Jenkins

26.   Why we are using the Jenkins

27.   What is advantages using continuous integration

28.   Explain the user access in svn

29.   How you will give the user access to single user for single Jenkins job

30.   How you will give the admin access in Jenkins

31.   What are the important things in pom.xml

32.   What is the difference between SVN and Git

33.   Explain branching strategy.

34.   How you will create he Jenkins job

35.   How you configure the node in Jenkins

36.   What is the difference between ant and maven

37.   How we will create the svn repository

38.   How you will install svn

39.   How you will install Jenkin

40.    How you will install docker

41.   How you will install chef

42.   How you configure the docker image

43.   How you pull the image from dockerhub

44.   How you will create the container

45.   How you install the Jenkins in docker container

46.   How you create the new server in Chef

47.   Why we are using chef

48.   Explain docker architecture

49.   Explain chef architecture

50.   What are the advantages using the Chef.
